Researchers in Australia have found a new way to build quantum computers which they say would make them dramatically easier and cheaper to produce at scale. 

Quantum computers promise to harness the strange ability of subatomic particles to exist in more than one state at a time to solve problems that are too complex or time-consuming for existing computers.

Google, IBM and other technology companies are all developing quantum computers, using a range of approaches. 

The team from the University of New South Wales say they have invented a new chip design based on a new type of quantum bit, the basic unit of information in a quantum computer, known as a qubit.

The new design would allow for a silicon quantum processor to overcome two limitations of existing designs: the need for atoms to be placed precisely, and allowing them to be placed further apart and still be coupled. 

Crucially, says project leader Andrea Mello, this so-called "flip-flop qubit" means the chips can be produced using the same device technology as existing computer chips.

"This makes the building of a quantum computer much more feasible, since it is based on the same manufacturing technology as today’s computer industry," Mello said.

That would allow chips for quantum computers to be mass-manufactured, a goal that has so far eluded other researchers.

IBM’s quantum computer in the United States has 16 qubits, meaning it can only perform basic calculations. Google’s computer has nine qubits.  

A desktop computer runs at gigaflops. The world’s fastest supercomputer, China’s Sunway TaihuLight, runs at 93 petaflops, but relies on 10 million processing cores and uses massive amounts of energy.

Slideshow (2 Images)
In theory, even a small 30-qubit universal quantum computer could run at the equivalent of a classic computer operating at 10 teraflops.          

The researchers’ paper will be published in Nature Communications. 

Laszlo Kish, a professor at Texas A&M University, said it was too early to say if the research was a breakthrough "but it may be a step in the proper direction" in solving some of the key obstacles to quantum computing. 

The university has set up a company, Silicon Quantum Computing Pty Ltd, with investments from Telstra, Australia’s Commonwealth Bank and the Australian and New South Wales governments.

The A$83 million company plans to build a 10-qubit prototype silicon quantum integrated circuit – the first step in building the world’s first quantum computer in silicon - by 2022.










Researchers who warned half a dozen robot manufacturers in January about nearly 50 vulnerabilities in their home, business and industrial robots, say only a few of the problems have been addressed.

The researchers, Cesar Cerrudo and Lucas Apa of cybersecurity firm IOActive, said the vulnerabilities would allow hackers to spy on users, disable safety features and make robots lurch and move violently, putting users and bystanders in danger.

While they say there are no signs that hackers have exploited the vulnerabilities, they say the fact that the robots were hacked so easily and the manufacturers’ lack of response raise questions about allowing robots in homes, offices and factories.

"Our research shows proof that even non-military robots could be weaponized to cause harm," Apa said in an interview.

"These robots don’t use bullets or explosives, but microphones, cameras, arms and legs. The difference is that they will be soon around us and we need to secure them now before it’s too late."

Some of the robot manufacturers defended themselves, saying they had fixed some or all of the issues raised.

Apa’s comments come in the wake of a letter signed by more than 100 leading robotic experts urging the United Nations to ban the development of killer military robots, or autonomous weapons.

Apa, a senior security consultant, said that of the six manufacturers contacted, only one, Rethink Robotics, said some of the problems had been fixed. He said he had not been able to confirm that as his team does not have access to that particular robot.

A spokesman for Rethink Robotics, which makes the Baxter and Sawyer assembly-line robots, said all but two issues - in the education and research versions of its robots - had been fixed.

Apa said a review of updates from the other five manufacturers - Universal Robots of Denmark, SoftBank Robotics and Asratec Corp of Japan, Ubtech of China, and Robotis Inc of South Korea - led him to believe none of the issues he had raised had been fixed.

Asratec said that software released for its robots so far was limited to "hobby use sample programs", and it believed IOActive was pointing to security vulnerabilities in those. Software it planned to release for commercial use would be different, it said.

SoftBank Robotics said it had already identified the vulnerabilities and fixed them. Ubtech said it had "fully addressed any concerns raised by IOActive that do not limit our developers from programming" their robots.

Universal Robots did not respond to emailed requests for comment. Robotis Inc declined to comment.

The slow reaction by the robot industry was not surprising, said Joshua Ziering, founder of Kittyhawk.io, a commercial drone software company. "A new technology bursts on to the market and people fail to secure it," he said.

ALARMING THREAT

Cybersecurity experts said the robot vulnerabilities were alarming, and cyber criminals could use them to disrupt factories by ransomware attacks, or with robots slowed down or forced to embed flaws in the products they are programmed to build.

"The potential impact to companies, and even countries, could be massive," said Nathan Wenzler, chief security strategist at AsTech, a San Francisco-based security consulting company, "should an attacker exploit the vulnerability within the applications that control these robots."

Even in the home, danger lurks, said Apa, demonstrating how a 17-inch (43.18 cm) tall Alpha 2 robot from Ubtech could be programmed to violently jab a screwdriver.

"Maybe it’s small and it’s not really going to hurt right now, but the trend is that the robots are going to be more powerful," he said. "We tested industrial ones which are really heavy and powerful, and some of the attacks work with them."

Apa and Cerrudo released their initial findings in January.

This week, they released details about the specific vulnerabilities they found, including one case where they mix several of those vulnerabilities together to hijack a Universal Robot factory robot, making it lurch about and be a potential threat.









Borrowing from nature, some machines now have arms that curl and grip like an octopus, others wriggle their way inside an airplane engine or forage underwater to create their own energy.

This is technology that challenges how we think of, and interact with, the robots of the not-too-distant future.

Robots are big business: by 2020, the industry will have more than doubled to $188 billion, predicts IDC, a consultancy. But there’s still a lot that today’s models can’t do, partly because they are mostly made of rigid metal or plastic.

Softer, lighter and less reliant on external power, future robots could interact more safely and predictably with humans, go where humans can‘t, and do some of the robotic jobs that other robots still can’t manage.

A recent academic conference in Singapore showcased the latest advances in soft robotics, highlighting how far they are moving away from what we see as traditional robots.

"The theme here," says Nikolaus Correll of Colorado University, "is a departure from gears, joints and links."

One robot on display was made of origami paper; another resembled a rolling colostomy bag. They are more likely to move via muscles that expand and contract through heat or hydraulics than by electricity. Some combine sensing and movement into the same component - just as our fingertips react to touch without needing our brain to make a decision.

These ideas are already escaping from the lab.

SMALL, AGILE

Rolls-Royce, for example, is testing a snake-like robot that can worm its way inside an aircraft engine mounted on the wing, saving the days it can take to remove the engine, inspect it and put it back.

Of all the technologies Rolls-Royce is exploring to solve this bottleneck, "this is the killer one," says Oliver Walker-Jones, head of communications.

The snake, says its creator, Arnau Garriga Casanovas, is made largely of pressurized silicone chambers, allowing the controller to propel and bend it through the engine with bursts of air. Using soft materials, he says, means it can be small and agile.

For now, much of the commercial action for softer robots is in logistics, replacing production-line jobs that can’t yet be handled by hard robots.

Food preparation companies and growers like Blue Apron, Plated and HelloFresh already use soft robotics for handling produce, says Mike Rocky, of recruiter PrincetonOne.

The challenge, says Cambridge Consultants’ Nathan Wrench, is to overcome the uncertainty when handling something - which humans deal with unconsciously: figuring out its shape and location and how hard to grip it, and distinguishing one object from another.

"This is an area robots traditionally can’t do, but where (soft robots) are on the cusp of being able to," said Wrench.

MARINE INSPIRATION

Investors are excited, says Leif Jentoft, co-founder of RightHand Robotics, because it addresses a major pain point in the logistics industry. "Ecommerce is growing rapidly and warehouses are struggling to find enough labor, especially in remote areas where warehouses tend to be located."

Some hope to ditch the idea that robots need hands. German automation company Festo and China’s Beihang University have built a prototype OctopusGripper, which has a pneumatic tentacle made of silicone that gently wraps itself around an object, while air is pumped in or out of suction cups to grasp it.

The ocean has inspired other robots, too.

A soft robot fish from China’s Zhejiang University swims by ditching the usual rigid motors and propellers for an artificial muscle which flexes. It’s lifelike enough, says creator Tiefeng Li, to fool other fish into embracing it as one of their own, and is being tested to explore or monitor water salinity.

And Bristol University in the UK is working on underwater robots that generate electrical energy by foraging for biomatter to feed a chain of microbial fuel-cell stomachs. Hemma Philamore says her team is talking to companies and environmental organizations about using its soft robots to decontaminate polluted waterways and monitor industrial infrastructure.

This doesn’t mean the end of hard-shelled robots.

Part of the problem, says Mark Freudenberg, executive technology director at frog, a design company, is that soft materials break easily, noting that most animatronic dolls like Teddy Ruxpin and Furby have rigid motors and plastic casings beneath their fur exteriors.

To be sure, the nascent soft robot industry lacks an ecosystem of software, hardware components and standards - and some companies have already failed. Empire Robotics, one of the first soft robot gripper companies, closed last year.

RightHand’s Jentoft says the problem is that customers don’t just want a robot, but the whole package, including computer vision and machine learning. "It’s hard to be a standalone gripper company," he says.

And even if soft robots find a niche, chances are they still won’t replace all the jobs done by human or hard-shelled robots.

Wrench, whose Cambridge Consultants has built its own fruit picking robot, says he expects to see soft robots working with humans to harvest fruit like apples and pears which are harder to damage.

Once the robot has passed through, human pickers would follow to grab fruit hidden behind leaves and in hard-to-reach spots.

"It’s a constant race to the bottom, so there’s a pressing business need," Wrench said.











SINGAPORE (Reuters) - The WannaCry malware that spread to more than 100 countries in a few hours is throwing up several surprises for cybersecurity researchers, including how it gained its initial foothold, how it spread so fast and why the hackers are not making much money from it.

Some researchers have found evidence they say could link North Korea with the attack, but others are more cautious, saying that the first step is shedding light on even the most basic questions about the malware itself.

For one thing, said IBM Security’s Caleb Barlow, researchers are still unsure exactly how the malware spread in the first place. Most cybersecurity companies have blamed phishing e-mails - e-mails containing malicious attachments or links to files - that download the ransomware. 

That’s how most ransomware finds its way onto victims’ computers. 

The problem in the WannaCry case is that despite digging through the company’s database of more than 1 billion e-mails dating back to March 1, Barlow’s team could find none linked to the attack. 

"Once one victim inside a network is infected it propagates," Boston-based Barlow said in a phone interview, describing a vulnerability in Microsoft Windows that allows the worm to move from one computer to another.

The NSA used the Microsoft flaw to build a hacking tool codenamed EternalBlue that ended up in the hands of a mysterious group called the Shadow Brokers, which then published that and other such tools online. 

But the puzzle is how the first person in each network was infected with the worm. "It’s statistically very unusual that we’d scan and find no indicators," Barlow said.  

Other researchers agree. "Right now there is no clear indication of the first compromise for WannaCry," said Budiman Tsjin of RSA Security, a part of Dell. 

Knowing how malware infects and spreads is key to being able to stop existing attacks and anticipate new ones. "How the hell did this get on there, and could this be repeatedly used again?" said Barlow.

PALTRY RANSOM

Some cybersecurity companies, however, say they’ve found a few samples of the phishing e-mails. FireEye FEYE.N said it was aware customers had used its reports to successfully identify some associated with the attack. 

But the company agrees that the malware relied less on phishing e-mails than other attacks. Once a certain number of infections was established, it was able to use the Microsoft vulnerability to propagate without their help. 

There are other surprises, that suggest this is not an ordinary ransomware attack.

Only paltry sums were collected by the hackers, according to available evidence, mostly in the bitcoin cryptocurrency.

There were only three bitcoin wallets and the campaign has far earned only $50,000 or so, despite the widespread infections. Barlow said that single payments in some other ransomware cases were more than that, depending on the victim. 

Jonathan Levin of Chainalysis, which monitors bitcoin payments, said there were other differences compared to most ransomware campaigns: for instance the lack of sophisticated methods used in previous cases to convince victims to pay up. In the past, this has included hot lines in various languages.

And so far, Levin said, the bitcoin that had been paid into the attackers’ wallets remained there - compared to another campaign, known as Locky, which made $15 million while regularly emptying the bitcoin wallets. 

"They really aren’t set up well to handle their bitcoin payments," Levin said.

The lack of sophistication may bolster those cybersecurity researchers who say they have found evidence that could link North Korea to the attack.

A senior researcher from South Korea’s Hauri Labs, Simon Choi, said on Tuesday the reclusive state had been developing and testing ransomware programs only since August. In one case, the hackers demanded bitcoin in exchange for client information they had stolen from a South Korean shopping mall.


ADVERTISING


Choi, who has done extensive research into North Korea’s hacking capabilities, said his findings matched those of Symantec (SYMC.O) and Kaspersky Lab, who say some code in an earlier version of the WannaCry software had also appeared in programs used by the Lazarus Group, identified by some researchers as a North Korea-run hacking operation.

The Lazarus hackers have however been more brazen in their pursuit of financial gain than others, and have been blamed for the theft of $81 million from the Bangladesh central bank, according to some cybersecurity firms. The United States accused it of being behind a cyber attack on Sony Pictures in 2014.

Whoever is found to be behind the attack, said Marin Ivezic, a cybersecurity partner at PwC in Hong Kong, the way the hackers used freely available tools so effectively may be what makes this campaign more worrying. 

By bundling a tool farmed from the leaked NSA files with their own ransomware, "they achieved better distribution than anything they could have achieved in a traditional way" he said.

"EternalBlue (the hacking tool) has now demonstrated the ROI (return on investment) of the right sort of worm and this will become the focus of research for cybercriminals," Ivezic said.















SINGAPORE/HANOI (Reuters) - The WannaCry ransomware worm that hobbled big institutions and businesses at the weekend, including FedEx (FDX.N) and Britain’s National Health Service, also indiscriminately caught many smaller victims across Asia, from hoteliers to Chinese students.

When MediaOnline, a firm that operates digital displays in Singapore shopping malls, noticed its displays were showing the ransomware’s pop-up window on Saturday, it sent engineers to two malls, director Dennis So told Reuters.

The company’s experience shows how the ransomware can sometimes be beaten without victims having to pay the $300 or so in bitcoin that hackers demand for a decryption key to unfreeze their computers.

MediaOnline’s So said only 12 computers were affected as the network was isolated from both the firm’s office network and those of the company running the malls, and its tenants. By replacing all the hard drives, reinstalling the operating system and downloading all Microsoft Windows (MSFT.O) updates, the computers were back up and running by early Monday, with So saying "no money or bitcoin was paid to the hackers."

At some larger organizations, it took longer.

At Jakarta’s Dharmais Hospital, Indonesia’s biggest cancer center, up to 200 people packed waiting rooms after cyber attacks hit scores of computers. By late Monday morning, some visitors were still filling out forms manually, though the hospital said 70 percent of its systems were back online.

The unknown hackers behind WannaCry don’t appear so far to have been well rewarded for their global blitz, with about $50,000 worth of bitcoin transferred to the online wallets listed in the recent and earlier versions of the malware, according to bitcoin transaction tracker Elliptic Labs.

This may be partly because many of those infected, like MediaOnline, chose to restore their computer data from back-ups or by reinstalling the operating system. Others just held their breath.

LOST WORK

Yang Lin, a journalism student at China’s Zhejiang University of Media and Communications, told Reuters she had just finished revising her thesis late on Friday and was closing Word on her desktop when all the Word icons blanked out, her screen went black and the hackers’ message appeared.

"I was connected to the university network. I didn’t open any link," she said. "I just cried. I was afraid to believe it, but had to accept it."

Yang said she thought about paying the ransom to unfreeze her computer, but gave up when she found out how much this would cost. Via a chat platform she discovered many of her friends faced the same problem.

She said she lost her literature review, foreign translations and thesis proposal, as well as films she had made over four years at college.

In Vietnam, hotel and restaurant manager Ngo Viet Yen said he was given 24 hours to pay 5 bitcoins (worth around $9,000) to save his files after his systems were infected on Friday. He didn’t pay, and reckons he’s lost around $2,000, and possibly more, as his staff revert to taking bookings, writing receipts and managing stock manually.

He noted that copyright infringement is widespread in Vietnam, and little is spent on system security.


ADVERTISING


"The number of computers updated to the latest version is very low," he said. "And the server is rarely updated because there will be more issues and it often slows the system. It’s like: you only build a cage after losing your cows."

Others found that even paying the ransom didn’t guarantee they’d get their data decrypted.

"We’ve seen some of our customers from the energy and health services who made the payment did not receive the decryption key in return," said Budiman Tsjin, senior technical consultant at RSA, the security division of EMC Corp.